Correct kernel-messaging example (#57)
jtpio/jupyterlab-extension-examples: advanced/kernel-messaging/README.md

## Custom Kernel Interactions: Kernel Managment and Messaging

One of the main features of JupyterLab is the possibility to manage and

> interact with execution [kernels](https://jupyter-client.readthedocs.io/en/latest/kernels.html). In this example, youu will explore how to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
interact with [kernels](https://jupyter-client.readthedocs.io/en/latest/kernels.html). In this example, you will explore how to
```

> start a kernel and execute a command on it.

Reviewer: In this case it's more about sending some code to execute?

Author: You are right. I rephrased that one.

## Component Overview

This example is structured in four files:

- `index.ts`: the JupyterLab frontend plugin that initializes the plugin and registers commands, add a menu entry and a launcher item,
- `panel.ts`: a panel class that is responsible to initialize and hold the kernel session, widgets and model
- `model.ts`: a KernelModel class that is responsible to execute code on the kernel and to store the execution result
- `widget.tsx`: a KernelView class that is responsible to provide visual elements that trigger the kernel model and display its results

The `KernelView` displays the `KernelModel` thanks to some React HTML elements and

> get updated when the `KernelModel` state changes, i.e. retrieves a new

Reviewer: ```suggestion
gets updated when the `KernelModel` state changes, i.e. retrieves a new
```

execution result.

## Initializing and managing a kernel session (`panel.ts`)

Jupyterlab provides a class `ClientSession`
([see the documentation](https://jupyterlab.github.io/jupyterlab/apputils/classes/clientsession.html))
that manages a single kernel session. The construction and initialization

> of such session is done like this:

Reviewer: Or maybe just: "To initialize a `ClientSession`:" ?

Author: Yep, shorter is simpler.

```ts
// src/panel.ts#L28-L31

this._session = new ClientSession({
  manager: manager.sessions,
  name: 'Example'
```

<!-- embedme src/panel.ts#L37-L39 -->

```ts
this.addWidget(this._example);
this._session.initialize().catch(reason => {

>   console.error(`Fail to initialize session in ExamplePanel.\n${reason}`);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  console.error(`Failed to initialize the session in ExamplePanel.\n${reason}`);
```

Reviewer: This suggestion applies to the source file of course.

    this.dispose();
  }

  private _model: KernelModel;
  private _session: ClientSession;
  private _example: KernelView;
```

## Executing code and retrieving messages from a kernel (`model.ts`)

Once a kernel is initialized and ready, code can be executed on it through
the `ClientSession` object with the following snippet:

```ts
// src/model.ts#L46-L46

this.future = this._session.kernel.requestExecute({ code });
```

`future` is an object that can receive some messages from the kernel as an

> answer on your execution request (see [jupyter messaging](https://jupyter-client.readthedocs.io/en/stable/messaging.html)).

Reviewer: How about "reply" instead of "answer"?

  private _stateChanged = new Signal<KernelModel, void>(this);
}
```

## Connecting a View to the Kernel

Now that the session is created and the model is defined, the view can
be connected to the model to display the execution results.

In this example, the view contains a `UseSignal` React element that listens
to the `stateChanged` signal defined by the model. Whenever the `stateChanged`
signal is emitted, the `UseSignal` React element will update its children
according to the new state of the model. In this example the execution
results are retrieved through `this._model.output` attribute and display
in a text field.

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
```ts
// src/widget.tsx#L26-L30

<UseSignal signal={this._model.stateChanged}>
  {() => (
    <span key="output field">{JSON.stringify(this._model.output)}</span>
  )}
</UseSignal>
```
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

Finally to trigger a statement execution, the click event of a button is
implemented to call the `this._model.execute` method.

```ts
// src/widget.tsx#L17-L25

<button
  key="header-thread"
  className="jp-example-button"
  onClick={() => {
    this._model.execute('3+5');
  }}
>
  Compute 3+5
</button>
```

> ## Where to Go Next

Reviewer: Having these sections is a really good idea, and very useful to link back to the other examples :+1:

In the [Kernel Output](../kernel-output)

> example, you will explore how you can reuse some jupyter components to have a nicer display for kernel messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
example, you will explore how you can reuse some Jupyter components to have a nicer display for kernel messages.
```
